>> Jen Kramer: Responsive design
consists of three characteristics,
as defined by Ethan Marcot when he wrote
a fine article back in May of 2010.
Can anyone name what
the three characteristics,
the three defining characteristics
of responsive design include?
>> Speaker 2: Media queries.
>> Jen Kramer: Media queries,
definitely one of them.
What else?
>> Speaker 3: Images that resize.
>> Jen Kramer: Images that resize,
absolutely true.
And one more that's kind of
the heart of what we do today,
hint hint.
>> Speaker 2: Grid based layout.
>> Jen Kramer: A grid based layout.
You're not peeking on that
PowerPoint slide are you?
So this is it.
So Ethan Marcotte, when he wrote his
definitive article on this back at
A List A Part,
this is how he defined responsive design.
Flexible grid based layout,
media queries, images that resize.
It's always worth revisiting this.
I am a Harvard professor,
I believe language matters.
This is what responsive design is,
it's not jQuery mobile or
something like that, [LAUGH] okay.
So this is what we mean when we
talk about responsive design.
And so to go into detail
a little bit more about that,
we know that a grid based layout
consists of some number of columns,
which are projecting very badly
[LAUGH] on this particular slide.
But if you look a the PDF you
should be able to see the pink
bars that are behind this.
You can imagine up here on the top with
these 70 pixel boxes on the top row,
if they extended all the way down, you'll
see how we have a 12 column layout here.
You can combine these columns and
create various different types
of layouts here on a page.
This is probably super familiar to
all of you at this point, right?
Great, okay.
Images that resize.
Images should change size based
on your screen resolution.
So if you are on a big desktop,
you should have a big image.
If you are on a phone,
what size image should you have?
>> Speaker 3: Very small.
>> Jen Kramer: A very small image
that downloads quickly and
doesn't consume your entire data plan.
So there are many ways of managing
images in a responsive manner.
Some of these are client side,
some of these are server side, and
there's a new picture tag,
it's an HTML picture tag.
You guys familiar with
the HTML picture tag?
Brand new, HTML 5.1.
We are gonna be revisiting that today,
okay.
So this is actually got responsive
images built in to it, and
we're gonna take a look in to that
in detail a little bit later on.
All right, and
then of course we have media queries.
In media queries the browser
is reporting what is
basically our browser window size
at this particular point in time.
And then based on that width,
what portion of the style
sheet is actually going to apply
to that portion of the screen.
And obviously these are central to what we
are going to be doing for much of today.
There is no JavaScript involved.
This is one of the common confusions
that I find with a lot of people.
JavaScript is not part of the whole
responsive design universe.
This is an add-on.
We occasionally add on JavaScript.
We add on polyfills, we add on various
types of interactivity, but the core of
responsive design, there is no JavaScript
required to it anywhere along the way.